# LIA-presentation / Mrs Marper

**Note 1:** This README.md file can (and should) be auto-generated by running **npm run make-doc**. 

**Note 2:** If you are a LIA student of Node Hill from HAK - [here is an alternate README file](README-HAK.md) in Swedish, focusing on the project you're working in.

## What do we have here?
A slide-deck built with [MARP](https://marp.app)+ **Mrs Marper**. (It also acts as the repo for the **Mrs Marper** code base for now.)

The **Mrs Marper** code base is located in the folder [make](make).

**Mrs Marper** is a project started by Node Hill and Ironboy (the most fearless JS coder alive). 

It  extends the [MARP](https://marp.app) concept by allowing:

* Auto generation of completely stand alone HTML files (with fonts, css and images embedded).
*  Generation of much smaller PDF:s than standard MARP can accomplish.
* Generation of PPTX/PowerPoint files with internal and external links intact.

**Mrs Marper** also addresses things like hyphenation and letter-spacing in justified text. Our goal is to achieve good typography with correct hyphenation and a mild variable letter-spacing that counteracts large spaces in justified text.

The content ([index.md](index.md) + [theme.css](theme.css)) - LIA-presentation - is just an example of content we can convert and format with **Mrs Marper**.

## Important! Install Ghostscript
For PDF creation/compression to work:

GhostScript must be installed on the computer and accessible as a global path via the 'gs' command in the terminal/shell. See installation settings:

#### Windows (as well as Linux Snap)
https://ghostscript.com/releases/gsdnld.html

*Note:* Select the correct OS + AGPL License

#### Mac
```
brew install ghostscript
```

*Note:* Install HomeBrew first if not already installed: https://brew.sh

#### Debian/Ubuntu
```
sudo apt-get -y install ghostscript
```

## Install Node.js and VSCode
1. Make sure Node.js and VSCode (Visual Studio Code) are installed!
2. Use VSC (Visual Studio Code) as your code editor.
3. In Visual Studio Code, install the following extension: 
*Marp for VS Code*.
4. In the terminal (inside VSC) run the **npm install** command.

## Watch markdown and preview as Marp in VSC
Assuming you have installed Marp for VS Code:
1. Open index.md
2. Click on the preview symbol in the upper corner (pages with magnifying glass).
3. Note: The appearance is controlled by the *theme.css* file - but you have to set this once in VSC: Click on the Marp symbol and select "Open extension settings", then on *Add item* at the bottom of the list and write in "./theme.css"

## Generate finished HTML and PDF from markdown
Don't forget to run **npm install**, then:

1. Type **npm run make** in the terminal.
2. A folder named **dist** is created with an HTML version and a PDF version of the presentation.

(Note: *Don't* use Marp the VSC extension command "Export slide deck" - it doesn't give as good results as **npm run make**.)

# Documentation of the Mrs Marper code base 

The **Mrs Marper** code base can be found in the **make** folder.
